Okay now that we have error page that we
can work with, what I want to show you in
this video is how we can actually
provide some useful information back to
our end user. And in troubleshooting that
sometimes you want to provide a little
troubleshooting information on the web
page, the details of their errors happened. So
in this case we got something that's not
found. So it'd be helpful to show the ID
value that we did receive and repeat
that back to the user for
troubleshooting purposes and I'm just
showing the capability how we can
provide that information back. So let's
take a look at our service. So we'll go
into the RecipeService and here I'm
just going to get rid of that one and
let's enhance this a little bit and
we can say recipe not found and let's go
ahead and say for ID value. Did I spell value right? Colon, space and let's do a plus and do
'l' dot. toStrings are probably redundant
there. So we're going to get the
string value of the long that was passed
in for the find by ID. So now we'll have
a friendlier error message there. And so
now what we can do is come into the
Controller and what we can do is pass in
the exception. We can tell Spring MVC
that we want the exception be passed in.
Like so and it's going to automatically
give us that. So let's go ahead and add
that to the view. And we can do add object to the view and if you remember, exception
has a getMessage and that's going to
give us a message. So let's go ahead and
cut and paste that here. That's an error log message. So we'll also log that
but what we want to do is also add that
to the page. So I'm adding that into the
view and now what we can do is
get a hold of that exceptions. So we're
calling exception and passing in the
exception. So now if we come over here to
our 404error form, we can modify this. Let's just do that.
Thymeleaf text. So let's say
exception getMessage and let's go ahead
and build this. You can see that Spring
Boot is restarting with the build to do the
developer tools. And let's come back over
here and do a refresh. Now we can see
that we are getting the Id value and I
don't like the lowercase Id so I'm going
to tweak that real quick.
And build that. Let's go ahead and
refresh this. So now we get the ID value
so we can see a much better error
message it gets more information and
there's a lot of versatility you could
do with this. I've seen situations where
you set up Spring so if you're in
development mode, using a development
active profile, you'd pass in the whole
stack trace and display that like in a
comment block on the web page. This is
just some tips and tricks that you can
use to speed up your own development and
leave yourself some breadcrumbs when
you're troubleshooting things because if
you're going to be in production, or in a
large enterprise you might have
something that rolls to QA and one of
your end users is testing it and they
run into a problem. Now you have some
tools to quickly debug and figure out
what's going on in a different
environment. So it does help you further
down the road in troubleshooting when
you do enhance out that error
information that you do have available
on the web page.